---
title: _Wish_ to learn how to write tests for the 21 project
date: 2202-09-26
---

## The Wish
- **WISH**: I _wish_ to learn how to write unit tests for the 21 project, starting with _just_ one unit test for the 21 project. For example, test that a new deck will contain 52 cards.
- **OUTCOME**: The ideal _outcome_ is being able to help my friends who are still in RB101 to continue moving forward with their learning and help them get real-time feedback. Consequently, I help meet my need for contribution, love, and support.
- **OBSTACLE**: The main inner _obstacle_ is my fear and worry about procrastinating on my RB120 progress.
- **PLAN**: If I end up feeling fear or might end up procrastinating on moving forward, then I'll set a time-limit for creating one unit test to 3 days (i.e. have at least one unit test by end September 29) and if I have nothing, then I'll let go of the project and move forward with getting an overview of RB120.

## The Notes [on Launch School's Minitest Tutorial](https://launchschool.medium.com/assert-yourself-a-detailed-minitest-tutorial-f186acf50960)

### Context
What's a **testing framework**?
- Software that lets you write, execute, and report tests for your program.

What is the _hierarchy_ of tests?
- Test **step** - the smallest level of testing in which you verify an assumption, e.g. a to-do is not yet completed.
- Test **case** - The package of the test step(s) and the code you want to test, e.g. a test case could be making a todo-object, calling the `#completed?` method on this test case, and checking that the return value is false.
  - Typically, one test step per test case.
- Test **suite** - 1+ test cases to show that some component of your code works, e.g. an entire class, a subset of that class, a combination of classes, the entire program.

### What's mini-test?

A testing framework that lets you make:
  - **assertions**
  - **expectations**

### Assertions vs Expectations?

- **Assertion**-based interface: The test writer creates 1+ classes representing test suites. These suites contain 1+ methods defining test cases. These test cases contain that runs what you're testing and test steps to verify the results.


....

## Starter Pack Example

Based off the 1st half of the article, here's a starter test pack for the 21 project:

1. Create a `twenty_one.rb` in a directory with a starter method to test.

```ruby
def initialize_deck()
  # TODO: Code that'll produce a 52-card deck
end
```
2. Create a child directory, `test`, in this directory.
3. Create a `t_twenty_one.rb` class in `test`, referencing the `twenty_one.rb` via `require_relative`.

```ruby
require 'minitest/autorun'
require_relative `../twenty_one.rb

class TwentyOne < Minitest::Test
  def test_new_deck_has_52_cards
    assert_equal initialize_deck().size, 52
  end
end
```

4. Run `ruby t_twenty_one.rb` in the same folder as this test file. You'll get an output that looks like this.
```ruby
Run options: --seed 60041

# Running:

E

Finished in 0.007211s, 138.6824 runs/s, 0.0000 assertions/s.

  1) Error:
TwentyOne#test_new_deck_has_52_cards:
NoMethodError: undefined method `size' for nil:NilClass

    assert_equal initialize_deck().size, 52
                                  ^^^^^
    t_twenty_one.rb:6:in `test_new_deck_has_52_cards'

1 runs, 0 assertions, 0 failures, 1 errors, 0 skips

```

## Conclusion

Here you go, that's a single unit test for the 21 game! And now, you have a simple way to move forward with testing 21, just create more test methods within the test class.

The next step now is to revisit the 21 requirements and see if we can create test cases for that project!

